3. Understandable
Information and the operation of the user interface must be understandable.

Guideline 3.1 Readable
Understanding Readable|
How to Meet Readable
Make text content readable and understandable.

Success Criterion 3.1.1 Language of Page
Understanding Language of Page|
How to Meet Language of Page(Level A)
The default human language of each web page can be programmatically determined.

Success Criterion 3.1.2 Language of Parts
Understanding Language of Parts|
How to Meet Language of Parts(Level AA)
The human language of each passage or phrase in the content can be programmatically determined except for proper names, technical terms, words of indeterminate language, and words or phrases that have become part of the vernacular of the immediately surrounding text.

Success Criterion 3.1.3 Unusual Words
Understanding Unusual Words|
How to Meet Unusual Words(Level AAA)
A mechanism is available for identifying specific definitions of words or phrases used in an unusual or restricted way, including idioms and jargon.

Success Criterion 3.1.4 Abbreviations
Understanding Abbreviations|
How to Meet Abbreviations(Level AAA)
A mechanism for identifying the expanded form or meaning of abbreviations is available.

Success Criterion 3.1.5 Reading Level
Understanding Reading Level|
How to Meet Reading Level(Level AAA)
When text requires reading ability more advanced than the lower secondary education level after removal of proper names and titles, supplemental content, or a version that does not require reading ability more advanced than the lower secondary education level, is available.

Success Criterion 3.1.6 Pronunciation
Understanding Pronunciation|
How to Meet Pronunciation(Level AAA)
A mechanism is available for identifying specific pronunciation of words where meaning of the words, in context, is ambiguous without knowing the pronunciation.

Guideline 3.2 Predictable
Understanding Predictable|
How to Meet Predictable
Make web pages appear and operate in predictable ways.

Success Criterion 3.2.1 On Focus
Understanding On Focus|
How to Meet On Focus(Level A)
When any user interface component receives focus, it does not initiate a change of context.

Success Criterion 3.2.2 On Input
Understanding On Input|
How to Meet On Input(Level A)
Changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the component.

Success Criterion 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation
Understanding Consistent Navigation|
How to Meet Consistent Navigation(Level AA)
Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on multiple web pages within a set of web pages occur in the same relative order each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the user.

Success Criterion 3.2.4 Consistent Identification
Understanding Consistent Identification|
How to Meet Consistent Identification(Level AA)
Components that have the same functionality within a set of web pages are identified consistently.

Success Criterion 3.2.5 Change on Request
Understanding Change on Request|
How to Meet Change on Request(Level AAA)
Changes of context are initiated only by user request or a mechanism is available to turn off such changes.

Guideline 3.3 Input Assistance
Understanding Input Assistance|
How to Meet Input Assistance
Help users avoid and correct mistakes.

Success Criterion 3.3.1 Error Identification
Understanding Error Identification|
How to Meet Error Identification(Level A)
If an input error is automatically detected, the item that is in error is identified and the error is described to the user in text.

Success Criterion 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions
Understanding Labels or Instructions|
How to Meet Labels or Instructions(Level A)
Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input.

Success Criterion 3.3.3 Error Suggestion
Understanding Error Suggestion|
How to Meet Error Suggestion(Level AA)
If an input error is automatically detected and suggestions for correction are known, then the suggestions are provided to the user, unless it would jeopardize the security or purpose of the content.

Success Criterion 3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
Understanding Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)|
How to Meet Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)(Level AA)
For web pages that cause legal commitments or financial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or delete user-controllable data in data storage systems, or that submit user test responses, at least one of the following is true:

Reversible
Submissions are reversible.
Checked
Data entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
Confirmed
A mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.
Success Criterion 3.3.5 Help
Understanding Help|
How to Meet Help(Level AAA)
Context-sensitive help is available.

Success Criterion 3.3.6 Error Prevention (All)
Understanding Error Prevention (All)|
How to Meet Error Prevention (All)(Level AAA)
For web pages that require the user to submit information, at least one of the following is true:

Reversible
Submissions are reversible.
Checked
Data entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
Confirmed
A mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.
